caffe2/contrib/fakelowp/test/README.md, before:

# How to run FakeLowP vs Glow tests
This was tested on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS but should work in general Linux system. The tested compiler is Clang-8.

## Build Glow Onnxifi Library
Follow https://github.com/pytorch/glow/blob/master/README.md to install the dependency of Glow. Then at glow root run
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G Ninja -DGLOW_BUILD_ONNXIFI_DYNLIB=ON ..
ninja all
```
Note that here you probably want to add other flags like `-DGLOW_WITH_NNPI=1` to enable specific backend if you have the flow set up.
Once built successfully, you will get an dynamic library at `build/lib/Onnxifi/libonnxifi.so`. We will use it later.

## Build and Install PyTorch
Follow https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/README.md to install the dependency of PyTorch. It might be easy to 
setup a python virtualenv or conda. And please use Python > 3.5.2 because hypothesis library will expose a bug in Python which 
is fixed after 3.5.2. Something like 3.7 might be good enough. You can install python3.7 with
```
sudo apt-get install -y build-essential checkinstall libreadline-gplv2-dev libncursesw5-dev libssl-dev libsqlite3-dev tk-dev libgdbm-dev libc6-dev libbz2-dev zlib1g-dev openssl libffi-dev python3-dev python3-setuptools wget
wget https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.7.4/Python-3.7.4.tgz && tar -xf Python-3.7.4.tgz
cd Python-3.7.4
./configure && make -j 8 && sudo make altinstall
```

Once you installed Python 3.7, here I give a virtualenv flow:
```
sudo pip3.7 install virtualenv
python3.7 -m venv venv3
source venv3/bin/active
cd pytorch
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install pytest hypothesis protobuf
```
You probably need to install gflags-dev too with
```
sudo apt-get install libgflags-dev
```

Once you have all the dependency libs installed, build PyTorch with FakeLowP op support
```
USE_CUDA=0 USE_ROCM=0 USE_FAKELOWP=ON DEBUG=1 CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug USE_GFLAGS=1 USE_GLOG=1 USE_MKLDNN=0 BUILD_TEST=0 python setup.py install
```
The key options here are `USE_FAKELOWP=ON` which enables building of FakeLowP operators and `USE_GFLAGS=1` which enables gflags as we 
use gflags in Glow to pass options. Other flags are mostl for fast build time and debug purpose. 

## Run the test
You can now run the tests with command like the following  when you are inside the virtual python env:
```
OSS_ONNXIFI_LIB=${PATH_TO_GLOW}/build/lib/Onnxifi/libonnxifi.so pytest pytorch/caffe2/contrib/fakelowp/test --hypothesis-show-statistics
```

Commit message:

FakeLowP Readme update (#38666)
Summary:
* fixed a typo source venv3/bin/active => source venv3/bin/activate
* Added instructions to set libomp.so path in LD_LIBRARY_PATH
Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/38666

Reviewed By: amylittleyang

Differential Revision: D21622582

Pulled By: yinghai

fbshipit-source-id: a286b1a25fea7de8b692bfba19e60978fcb3c215

caffe2/contrib/fakelowp/test/README.md, after:

# How to run FakeLowP vs Glow tests
This was tested on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS but should work in general Linux system. The tested compiler is Clang-8.

## Build Glow Onnxifi Library
Follow https://github.com/pytorch/glow/blob/master/README.md to install the dependency of Glow. Then at glow root run
```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -G Ninja -DGLOW_BUILD_ONNXIFI_DYNLIB=ON ..
ninja all
```
Note that here you probably want to add other flags like `-DGLOW_WITH_NNPI=1` to enable specific backend if you have the flow set up. Also, make sure you have the LD_LIBRARY_PATH set correctly pointing to libomp.so path when compiling with -DGLOW_WITH_NNPI=1.
```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/llvm-8/lib
```
Once built successfully, you will get an dynamic library at `build/lib/Onnxifi/libonnxifi.so`. We will use it later.

## Build and Install PyTorch
Follow https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/README.md to install the dependency of PyTorch. It might be easy to 
setup a python virtualenv or conda. And please use Python > 3.5.2 because hypothesis library will expose a bug in Python which 
is fixed after 3.5.2. Something like 3.7 might be good enough. You can install python3.7 with
```
sudo apt-get install -y build-essential checkinstall libreadline-gplv2-dev libncursesw5-dev libssl-dev libsqlite3-dev tk-dev libgdbm-dev libc6-dev libbz2-dev zlib1g-dev openssl libffi-dev python3-dev python3-setuptools wget
wget https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.7.4/Python-3.7.4.tgz && tar -xf Python-3.7.4.tgz
cd Python-3.7.4
./configure && make -j 8 && sudo make altinstall
```

Once you installed Python 3.7, here I give a virtualenv flow:
```
sudo pip3.7 install virtualenv
python3.7 -m venv venv3
source venv3/bin/activate
cd pytorch
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install pytest hypothesis protobuf
```
You probably need to install gflags-dev too with
```
sudo apt-get install libgflags-dev
```

Once you have all the dependency libs installed, build PyTorch with FakeLowP op support
```
USE_CUDA=0 USE_ROCM=0 USE_FAKELOWP=ON DEBUG=1 CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug USE_GFLAGS=1 USE_GLOG=1 USE_MKLDNN=0 BUILD_TEST=0 python setup.py install
```
The key options here are `USE_FAKELOWP=ON` which enables building of FakeLowP operators and `USE_GFLAGS=1` which enables gflags as we 
use gflags in Glow to pass options. Other flags are mostl for fast build time and debug purpose. 

## Run the test
You can now run the tests with command like the following  when you are inside the virtual python env:
```
OSS_ONNXIFI_LIB=${PATH_TO_GLOW}/build/lib/Onnxifi/libonnxifi.so pytest pytorch/caffe2/contrib/fakelowp/test --hypothesis-show-statistics
```
