docs/source/type_info.rst, before:

.. currentmodule:: torch

.. _type-info-doc:

Type Info
=========

The numerical properties of a :class:`torch.dtype` can be accessed through either the :class:`torch.finfo` or the :class:`torch.iinfo`.

.. _finfo-doc:

torch.finfo
-----------

.. class:: torch.finfo

A :class:`torch.finfo` is an object that represents the numerical properties of a floating point
:class:`torch.dtype`, (i.e. ``torch.float32``, ``torch.float64``, and ``torch.float16``). This is similar to `numpy.finfo <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.finfo.html>`_.

A :class:`torch.finfo` provides the following attributes:

=========   =====   ========================================
Name        Type    Description
=========   =====   ========================================
bits        int     The number of bits occupied by the type.
eps         float   The smallest representable number such that ``1.0 + eps != 1.0``.
max         float   The largest representable number.
min         float   The smallest representable number (typically ``-max``).
tiny        float   The smallest positive representable number.
=========   =====   ========================================

.. note::
  The constructor of :class:`torch.finfo` can be called without argument, in which case the class is created for the pytorch default dtype (as returned by :func:`torch.get_default_dtype`).


.. _iinfo-doc:

torch.iinfo
------------

.. class:: torch.iinfo


A :class:`torch.iinfo` is an object that represents the numerical properties of a integer
:class:`torch.dtype` (i.e. ``torch.uint8``, ``torch.int8``, ``torch.int16``, ``torch.int32``, and ``torch.int64``). This is similar to `numpy.iinfo <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.iinfo.html>`_.

A :class:`torch.iinfo` provides the following attributes:

=========   =====   ========================================
Name        Type    Description
=========   =====   ========================================
bits        int     The number of bits occupied by the type.
max         int     The largest representable number.
min         int     The smallest representable number.
=========   =====   ========================================

Commit message:

Improve repr for torch.iinfo & torch.finfo (#40488)
Summary:
- fix https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/39991
- Include directly `min`/`max`/`eps`/`tiny` values in repr of `torch.iinfo` & `torch.finfo` for inspection
- Use `torch.float16` / `torch.int16` instead of uncorrespond names `Half` / `Short`
- The improved repr is shown just like:
```
>>> torch.iinfo(torch.int8)
iinfo(type=torch.int8, max=127, min=-128)
>>> torch.iinfo(torch.int16)
iinfo(type=torch.int16, max=32767, min=-32768)
>>> torch.iinfo(torch.int32)
iinfo(type=torch.int32, max=2.14748e+09, min=-2.14748e+09)
>>> torch.iinfo(torch.int64)
iinfo(type=torch.int64, max=9.22337e+18, min=-9.22337e+18)
>>> torch.finfo(torch.float16)
finfo(type=torch.float16, eps=0.000976563, max=65504, min=-65504, tiny=6.10352e-05)
>>> torch.finfo(torch.float32)
finfo(type=torch.float32, eps=1.19209e-07, max=3.40282e+38, min=-3.40282e+38, tiny=1.17549e-38)
>>> torch.finfo(torch.float64)
finfo(type=torch.float64, eps=2.22045e-16, max=1.79769e+308, min=-1.79769e+308, tiny=2.22507e-308)
```

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/40488

Differential Revision: D22445301

Pulled By: mruberry

fbshipit-source-id: 552af9904c423006084b45d6c4adfb4b5689db54

docs/source/type_info.rst, after:

.. currentmodule:: torch

.. _type-info-doc:

Type Info
=========

The numerical properties of a :class:`torch.dtype` can be accessed through either the :class:`torch.finfo` or the :class:`torch.iinfo`.

.. _finfo-doc:

torch.finfo
-----------

.. class:: torch.finfo

A :class:`torch.finfo` is an object that represents the numerical properties of a floating point
:class:`torch.dtype`, (i.e. ``torch.float32``, ``torch.float64``, and ``torch.float16``). This is similar to `numpy.finfo <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.finfo.html>`_.

A :class:`torch.finfo` provides the following attributes:

=========   =====   ========================================
Name        Type    Description
=========   =====   ========================================
bits        int     The number of bits occupied by the type.
eps         float   The smallest representable number such that ``1.0 + eps != 1.0``.
max         float   The largest representable number.
min         float   The smallest representable number (typically ``-max``).
tiny        float   The smallest positive representable number.
resolution  float   The approximate decimal resolution of this type, i.e., ``10**-precision``.
=========   =====   ========================================

.. note::
  The constructor of :class:`torch.finfo` can be called without argument, in which case the class is created for the pytorch default dtype (as returned by :func:`torch.get_default_dtype`).


.. _iinfo-doc:

torch.iinfo
------------

.. class:: torch.iinfo


A :class:`torch.iinfo` is an object that represents the numerical properties of a integer
:class:`torch.dtype` (i.e. ``torch.uint8``, ``torch.int8``, ``torch.int16``, ``torch.int32``, and ``torch.int64``). This is similar to `numpy.iinfo <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.iinfo.html>`_.

A :class:`torch.iinfo` provides the following attributes:

=========   =====   ========================================
Name        Type    Description
=========   =====   ========================================
bits        int     The number of bits occupied by the type.
max         int     The largest representable number.
min         int     The smallest representable number.
=========   =====   ========================================
